Zero-shot evaluation on the Hub (#548)
huggingface/blog: zero-shot-eval-on-the-hub.md

---
title: "Very Large Language Models and How to Evaluate Them" 

> thumbnail: /blog/assets/106_zero_shot_eval_on_the_hub/thumbnail.png

Reviewer: This file is 2.2MB - any chance we can compress it?

Author: fixed, thanks for the reminder :)

        <div class="bfc">
            <code>abhishek</code>
            <span class="fullname">Abhishek Thakur</span>
        </div>
    </a>
    <a href="/lewtun">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://aeiljuispo.cloudimg.io/v7/https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1594651707950-noauth.jpeg?w=200&h=200&f=face" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>lewtun</code>
            <span class="fullname">Lewis Tunstall</span>
        </div>
    </a>
    <a href="/douwekiela">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://aeiljuispo.cloudimg.io/v7/https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1641847245435-61dc997715b47073db1620dc.jpeg?w=200&h=200&f=face" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>douwekiela</code>
            <span class="fullname">Douwe Kiela</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

Large language models can now be evaluated on zero-shot classification tasks with [Evaluation on the Hub](https://huggingface.co/spaces/autoevaluate/model-evaluator)! 

> Zero-shot evaluation is a popular way for researchers to measure performance of large language models, as they have been [shown](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.14165) to learn capabilities during training without explicitly being shown labeled examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zero-shot evaluation is a popular way for researchers to measure the performance of large language models, as they have been [shown](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.14165) to learn capabilities during training without explicitly being shown labeled examples.
```

![dataset](assets/106_zero_shot_eval_on_the_hub/zeroshot.jpg)

## Enabling zero-shot evaluation of language models on the Hub

> [Evaluation on the Hub](https://huggingface.co/blog/eval-on-the-hub) helps you evaluate any model on the Hub without writing code, powered by [AutoTrain](https://huggingface.co/autotrain). Now, any causal language model on the Hub can be evaluated in a zero-shot fashion. Zero-shot evaluation measures the likelihood of a trained model producing a given set of tokens and does not require any labelled training data, which allows researchers to skip expensive labelling efforts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Evaluation on the Hub](https://huggingface.co/blog/eval-on-the-hub) helps you evaluate any model on the Hub without writing code, and is powered by [AutoTrain](https://huggingface.co/autotrain). Now, any causal language model on the Hub can be evaluated in a zero-shot fashion. Zero-shot evaluation measures the likelihood of a trained model producing a given set of tokens and does not require any labelled training data, which allows researchers to skip expensive labelling efforts. 
```

> We’ve upgraded the AutoTrain infrastructure for this project so that large models can be evaluated for free. It’s expensive and time-consuming for users to figure out how to write custom code to evaluate big models on GPUs—a language model with 66 billion parameters may take 35 minutes just to load and compile, making evaluation of large models accessible only to those with expensive infrastructure and extensive technical experience. With these changes, evaluating a model with 66-billion parameters on a zero-shot classification task with 2000 sentence-length examples takes 3.5 hours and can be done by anyone without writing any code. Evaluation on the Hub currently supports evaluating models up to 66 billion parameters, and support for larger models is to come.

Reviewer: emoji suggestion :)

```suggestion
We’ve upgraded the AutoTrain infrastructure for this project so that large models can be evaluated for free 🤯! It’s expensive and time-consuming for users to figure out how to write custom code to evaluate big models on GPUs. For example, a language model with 66 billion parameters may take 35 minutes just to load and compile, making evaluation of large models accessible only to those with expensive infrastructure and extensive technical experience. With these changes, evaluating a model with 66-billion parameters on a zero-shot classification task with 2000 sentence-length examples takes 3.5 hours and can be done by anyone in the community. Evaluation on the Hub currently supports evaluating models up to 66 billion parameters, and support for larger models is to come.
```

## Case study: Zero-shot evaluation on the WinoBias task

The [WinoBias](https://github.com/uclanlp/corefBias) dataset has been formatted as a zero-shot task where classification options are the completions. Each completion differs by the pronoun, and the target corresponds to the anti-stereotypical completion for the occupation. See here for an example:

![dataset](assets/106_zero_shot_eval_on_the_hub/dataset.png)

Next, we can select this newly-uploaded dataset in the Evaluation on the Hub interface using the `text_zero_shot_classification` task, select the models we’d like to evaluate, and submit our evaluation jobs! When the job has been completed, you’ll be notified by email that the autoevaluator bot has opened a new pull request with the results on the model’s Hub repository.

![Evaluation on the Hub](assets/106_zero_shot_eval_on_the_hub/eval_hub.png)

> Plotting the results from the WinoBias task, we find that smaller models are more likely to select the anti-stereotypical pronoun for a sentence, while larger models are more likely to learn stereotypical associations between gender and occupation in text.

Reviewer: It would be great to expand a bit on this - i.e. what are the implications of this result?

Reviewer 2: Agreed - if we update the plot to say "Likelihood of not stereotyping by pronoun" then we can probably also simplify the language a bit more here, and then explain very concretely what the result is.

Author: it's now "likelihood to avoid stereotyping by pronoun"

Author: "anti-stereotypical" is pretty standard language nowadays (the StereoSet, WinoBias, BOLD papers all use it, several other fairness/bias papers do as well, see screenshot attached). I'll add a bit about the result but I don't think we should jump through too many hoops to avoid "anti-stereotypical" specifically

<img width="711" alt="Screen Shot 2022-09-30 at 12 35 16 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31600291/193316575-c8db40a9-218b-460b-9fc5-c1913ad7da53.png">

Reviewer 2: I agree! But that's in the specialized literature. Your target audience includes people who barely know what a language model is.

Reviewer 2: At the very least, we could explain what anti-stereotypical means to people who don't know?

Author: i've added an example of anti-stereotypical to the part where we introduce WinoBias (`(e.g. "developer" is stereotypically a male-dominated occupation, so "she" would be the anti-stereotypical pronoun)`)

![Winobias](./assets/106_zero_shot_eval_on_the_hub/winobias.jpg)

Evaluation on the Hub makes it simple to compare the zero-shot performance of a set of models along an axis such as FLOPS or model size, and to compare the performance of a set of models trained on a specific corpora against a different set of models. The zero-shot text classification task is extremely flexible—any dataset that can be permuted into a Winograd schema where examples to be compared only differ by a few words can be used with this task and evaluated on many models at once. Our goal is to make it simple to upload a new dataset for evaluation and enable researchers to easily benchmark many models on it.

> 

Reviewer 2: Insert section header?

Author: good idea, will add "Enabling better research tools for everyone" for this section

        </div>
    </a>
    <a href="/lewtun">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://aeiljuispo.cloudimg.io/v7/https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1594651707950-noauth.jpeg?w=200&h=200&f=face" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>lewtun</code>
            <span class="fullname">Lewis Tunstall</span>
        </div>
    </a>
    <a href="/douwekiela">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://aeiljuispo.cloudimg.io/v7/https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1641847245435-61dc997715b47073db1620dc.jpeg?w=200&h=200&f=face" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>douwekiela</code>
            <span class="fullname">Douwe Kiela</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

Large language models can now be evaluated on zero-shot classification tasks with [Evaluation on the Hub](https://huggingface.co/spaces/autoevaluate/model-evaluator)! 

Zero-shot evaluation is a popular way for researchers to measure the performance of large language models, as they have been [shown](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.14165) to learn capabilities during training without explicitly being shown labeled examples.

> 

Reviewer 2: I like Lewis's suggestion to briefly mention the Inverse Scaling Challenge here already, if you can find a good way to work it in :) They'll be our first batch of users, hopefully :)

Author: added!
